.\" $Header: /home/amb/CVS/procmeter3/man/procmeterrc.5,v 1.19 2010-07-03 12:55:31 amb Exp $
.\"
.\"  ProcMeter - A system monitoring program for Linux - Version 3.5d.
.\"
.\"  Manual page for .procmeterrc file
.\"
.\"  Written by Andrew M. Bishop
.\"
.\"  This file Copyright 1998-2010 Andrew M. Bishop
.\"  It may be distributed under the GNU Public License, version 2, or
.\"  any higher version.  See section COPYING of the GNU Public license
.\"  for conditions under which this file may be redistributed.
.\"
.TH PROCMETERRC 5 "July 3, 2010"

.SH NAME

procmetetrc \- The procmeterrc configuration file for procmeter3, procmeter3-xaw,
gprocmeter3, procmeter3-gtk1, procmeter3-gtk2, procmeter3-log and procmeter3-lcd
programs.

.SH SYNOPSIS

This file contains the run-time options for the procmeter3, procmeter3-xaw,
gprocmeter3, procmeter3-gtk1, procmeter3-gtk2, procmeter3-log and procmeter3-lcd
programs.  These include the outputs that are displayed, the colours and fonts
that are used (for X window outputs), the LCDproc server (for the procmeter-lcd
version) and other program options.

.SH DESCRIPTION

The resources for ProcMeter version 3.x are stored in the .procmeterrc file
instead of using X resources.  This gives more flexibility and allows for much
simpler customisation.
.LP
When the procmeter3, procmeter3-xaw, gprocmeter3, procmeter3-gtk1,
procmeter3-gtk2, procmeter3-log or procmeter3-lcd programs start the
.B .procmeterrc
file is searched for in the current directory, the current users home directory
or the system default installation directory (named procmeterrc).  The file is
used from the first one of these locations that matches.
.LP
The format of the
.B .procmeterrc
file is a number of sections with the section names marked in '[]'.  As well as
the fixed sections (described below) there is a section for each module that is
named using the name that the module reports itself to be.  There are then
further sections for each of the possible outputs of each module.  The names of
the sections and parameters are not case sensitive although the values that they
are given may be.  Lines beginning with the characters ';' or '#' are comments
and continuation using the '\\' character at the end of a line is allowed.
.LP
Below is listed the resource values and the sections of the
.B .procmeterrc
file that they can exist in.

.SH library SECTION

This section contains the information about the ProcMeter modules that are
available.  This applies to all versions of the program.
.TP
.BR path=...
The pathname of the library that contains the compiled ProcMeter modules.
(defaults to the program's compiled-in installation location).
.TP
.BR others=...
A list of other modules to be loaded (full pathnames separated by spaces).
.LP

.SH startup SECTION

This section controls how the ProcMeter window should look when the program is
started.
.TP
.BR order=...
A list of the outputs that are to be started up in the order that they are to be
displayed (separated by spaces).  If command line options are also specified
then they appear after those specified here.

.SH resources SECTION

This section contains the general program display resources.  Not all of the
options apply to all of the versions of the program.  Specific versions that the
options apply to are specified below.
.TP
.BR horizontal=...
A Boolean to indicate that the outputs are stacked horizontally instead of
the default which is vertically. (For X versions of procmeter3 only.)
.TP
.BR background=...
The colour to use as the default background for all outputs. (An X11 colour name
or an RGB value in hex as #RRGGBB.)  (For X versions of procmeter3 only.)
.TP
.BR foreground=...
The colour to use as the default foreground for all outputs. (An X11 colour name
or an RGB value in hex as #RRGGBB.)  (For X versions of procmeter3 only.)
.TP
.BR label-font=...
The font to use for the label that describes the output. (An X11 font name.)
(For X versions of procmeter3 only.)
.TP
.BR label-foreground=...
The colour to use as the foreground for the label. (An X11 colour name or an RGB
value in hex as #RRGGBB.)  (For X versions of procmeter3 only.)
.TP
.BR label-position=...
The position of the label relative to the body of the output.  (Either top,
bottom or none.)  (For X versions of procmeter3 only.)
.TP
.BR grid-foreground=...
The colour to use for the grid lines. (An X11 colour name or an RGB value in hex
as #RRGGBB.)  (For X versions of procmeter3 only.)
.TP
.BR graph-solid=...
A boolean to indicate if the graph should be solid (the default) or a single
line.  (yes or no, true or false, 0 or 1.)  (For X versions of procmeter3 only.)
.TP
.BR grid-min=...
The minimum number of grid lines to display on a graph or bar chart.  (An
integer.)  (For X and LCD versions of procmeter3 only.)  This is particularly
important with the bar chart because with this set too low the bar will always
be the same length on screen and the number of grid lines will change with the
data.
.TP
.BR grid-max=...
The maximum number of grid lines to display on a graph or bar chart.  (An
integer.)  (For X and LCD versions of procmeter3 only.)
.TP
.BR text-font=...
The font to use for the textual outputs.  (An X11 font name.)  (For X versions
of procmeter3 only.)
.TP
.BR menu-foreground=...
The colour to use as the foreground for the menus.  (An X11 colour name or an RGB
value in hex as #RRGGBB.)  (For procmeter3 and procmeter3-xaw only.)
.TP
.BR menu-background=...
The colour to use as the background for the menus.  (An X11 colour name or an
RGB value in hex as #RRGGBB.)  (For procmeter3 and procmeter3-xaw only.)  (The
background of all items on the same menu must be the same due to the Xaw Widget
set used.)
.TP
.BR menu-font=...
The font to use for the menus.  (An X11 font name.)  (For procmeter3 and
procmeter3-xaw only.)
.TP
.BR update=...
The update interval for the output in seconds (an integer).
.LP

.SH LCD SECTION

This section contains parameters that are only used by the procmeter3-lcd
version of the program.
.TP
.BR host=...
The name of the host that the LCDd daemon is running on.
.TP
.BR port=...
The port number that the LCDd daemon is running on.
.TP
.BR duration=...
The length of time that all of the ProcMeter outputs are displayed on the LCD
display for before cycling to the next.
.TP
.BR priority=...
The priority of all of the ProcMeter outputs when they are displayed on the LCD
display.  This values should be a numeric value for LCDd verions before 0.5 or
priority names for later versions.  Using numeric values will likely fail for
LCDd versions after 0.5 due to a bug in LCDd.  The safest solution is not to use
this option unless you are sure what value to use.

.SH MODULE SECTION

The name of the section is the name of the ProcMeter module (see the help,
procmeter3 \-h), for example:
.I ProcMeter
.LP
These can contain any of the resource values which will then apply to all
outputs of this module.  There are also extra options that can be applied to the
module and as defaults for the all of the outputs of that module.
.TP
.BR options=...
A string containing options that are passed to the module at startup, different
modules have different options, see the procmeter3_modules(1) manual page.
.TP
.BR graph-scale=...
The scaling of the graph or bar chart, the number of units between each of the
grid lines (an integer).
.TP
.BR run=...
A string that specifies a program that can be run by selecting it from the menu
for the left mouse button.  (For X versions of procmeter3 only.)  The way that
the command is run can be specified using one of the following abbreviations;
.B XTerm(
.I command
.B )
to run
.I command
in an
.B xterm
then exit.
.B XTermWait(
.I command
.B )
to run
.I command
in an
.B xterm
and wait for user input before exiting.
.B Shell(
.I command
.B )
to run
.I command
in an
.B shell
and exit.  This last one is equivalent to using none of these abbreviations.
.LP

.SH OUTPUT SECTION

The name of the section is the name of the ProcMeter output (see the help,
procmeter3 \-h), for example:
.I ProcMeter.Version
.LP
The output sections can contain any of the resource or module options (except
\'options') which will then apply only to the specified output.  There are also
options that can only be applied to individual outputs.
.TP
.BR label=...
Changes the default label for the output to the specified string.

.SH EXAMPLE

Below is an example
.B .procmeterrc
file, it is a much reduced version of the system default procmeterrc file.

 [startup]

 # ProcMeter version, clock, CPU graph, load text
 order=ProcMeter.Version Date_Time.Time_HM \\
       Statistics.CPU-g Processes.Load-t

 [resources]

 # The outputs, black on white
 foreground = black
 background = white

 # A large-medium size text font.
 text-font = 8x13

 # Solid graphs with at least 5 grid lines in grey.
 graph-solid = yes
 grid-min = 5
 grid-foreground = grey50

 # Black on white output labels, small font, below the data.
 label-font = 5x7
 label-foreground = black
 label-position = bottom

 # Black on white menu items in a small-medium size font.
 menu-foreground = black
 menu-background = white
 menu-font = 7x13

 [ProcMeter.Version]

 # A smaller font than normal with no label.
 text-font = 6x10
 label-position = none

 [Statistics]

 [Statistics.CPU]

 # The minimum number of grid lines, they are 20% each.
 grid-min = 5

 [Processes]

 run = XTerm(top)

 [Network]

 # To pick up extra devices not automatically recognised.
 #options=ppp0 slip0

.SH FILES

.B ./.procmeterrc
.LP
.B ~/.procmeterrc
.LP
.B /usr/local/lib/X11/ProcMeter3/procmeterrc
or
.B /usr/lib/X11/ProcMeter3/procmeterrc

.SH SEE ALSO

procmeter3(1), procmeter3-xaw(1), gprocmeter3(1), procmeter3-gtk1(1),
procmeter3-gtk2(1), procmeter3-log(1), procmeter3-lcd(1), procmeter3_modules(1).

.SH AUTHOR

Andrew M. Bishop 1998-2007
