.\" $Header: /home/amb/CVS/procmeter3/man/procmeter3-lcd.1,v 1.1 2002-11-30 19:12:17 amb Exp $
.\"
.\"  ProcMeter - A system monitoring program for Linux - Version 3.4.
.\"
.\"  Manual page for procmeter-lcd program.
.\"
.\"  Written by Andrew M. Bishop
.\"
.\"  This file Copyright 1998,99,2000,01,02 Andrew M. Bishop
.\"  It may be distributed under the GNU Public License, version 2, or
.\"  any higher version.  See section COPYING of the GNU Public license
.\"  for conditions under which this file may be redistributed.
.\"
.TH PROCMETER3-LCD 1 "November 9, 2002"

.SH NAME

procmeter3-lcd \- A system monitoring / logging program.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B procmeter3-lcd
.I [\-h|\-\-help]
.I [\-\-rc=<filename>] [\-\-...]
.I [...]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.I ProcMeter
Displays one or more pieces of information about the operating system and other
resources.  Most of the information that is displayed comes from the /proc
filesystem.  The program is modular and very configurable.

.SH OPTIONS

The command line options are described below.
.TP
.BR \-h
Provides a help message listing the available outputs.  This will be different
for different computers depending on the Linux kernel version that is being used
and the hardware/software that is configured.
.TP
.BR \-\-rc=<filename>
Load the specified
.B .procmeterrc
file in stead of the searching in the usual places.
.TP
.BR \-\-...
A list of configuration file options that will override the values in the
.B .procmeterrc
file.  The format of these options is (for example)
.I \-\-resources.background=grey50
which is equivalent to the entry in the .procmeterrc file of

 [resources]
 background = grey50

All spaces around the equal sign must be removed and if spaces are required in
the value on the right hand side then quotes must be used around the entire
command line option.
.TP
.BR ...
A list of names of outputs that are to be displayed.  This can include any of
the outputs that are available (see the -h option).  For the CPU usage is in a
module named
.B Statistics
with an output named
.B CPU
and there are graph (-g), text (-t) and bar (-b) options.  Since this version of
the program does not display anything, but logs the data to a file it does not
matter which one is chosen.  To store the CPU usage data you would use the
command line option
.B Statistics.CPU-t

.SH USAGE

When started the program will log all of the requested information on the
standard output (stdout).  The outputs that are displayed are those from the
command line and those from the
.B .procmeterrc
configuration file.

.SH MODULES

The modules that are available for procmeter3-lcd are described in the
procmeter3_modules(1) manual page.

.SH SEE ALSO

procmeterrc(5) procmeter3_modules(1)

.SH AUTHOR

Andrew M. Bishop 1998,99,2000,01,02
