.\" $Header: /home/amb/CVS/procmeter3/man/procmeter3-log.1,v 1.1 2002-06-03 16:04:53 amb Exp $
.\"
.\"  ProcMeter - A system monitoring program for Linux - Version 3.3b.
.\"
.\"  Manual page for procmeter-no-x program.
.\"
.\"  Written by Andrew M. Bishop
.\"
.\"  This file Copyright 1998,99,2000,01,02 Andrew M. Bishop
.\"  It may be distributed under the GNU Public License, version 2, or
.\"  any higher version.  See section COPYING of the GNU Public license
.\"  for conditions under which this file may be redistributed.
.\"
.TH PROCMETER3-NO-X 1 "June 3, 2002"

.SH NAME

procmeter3-no-x \- A system monitoring / logging program.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B procmeter3-no-x
.I [\-h|\-\-help]
.I [\-\-rc=<filename>] [\-\-...]
.I [...]

.SH DESCRIPTION

.I ProcMeter
Displays one or more pieces of information about the operating system and other
resources.  Most of the information that is displayed comes from the /proc
filesystem.  The program is modular and very configurable.

.SH OPTIONS

The command line options are described below.
.TP
.BR \-h
Provides a help message listing the available outputs.  This will be different
for different computers depending on the Linux kernel version that is being used
and the hardware/software that is configured.
.TP
.BR \-\-rc=<filename>
Load the specified
.B .procmeterrc
file in stead of the searching in the usual places.
.TP
.BR \-\-...
A list of configuration file options that will override the values in the
.B .procmeterrc
file.  The format of these options is (for example)
.I \-\-resources.background=grey50
which is equivalent to the entry in the .procmeterrc file of

 [resources]
 background = grey50

All spaces around the equal sign must be removed and if spaces are required in
the value on the right hand side then quotes must be used around the entire
command line option.
.TP
.BR ...
A list of names of outputs that are to be displayed.  This can include any of
the outputs that are available (see the -h option).  For the CPU usage is in a
module named
.B Statistics
with an output named
.B CPU
and there are graph (-g), text (-t) and bar (-b) options.  Since this version of
the program does not display anything, but logs the data to a file it does not
matter which one is chosen.  To store the CPU usage data you would use the
command line option
.B Statistics.CPU-t

.SH USAGE

When started the program will log all of the requested information on the
standard output (stdout).  The outputs that are displayed are those from the
command line and those from the
.B .procmeterrc
configuration file.

.SH MODULES

The modules that are provided with the program are the following:
.TP
.BR APM
Advanced Power Management information.  These outputs are only available if you
have configured the Linux kernel to have the APM feature and you have the
appropriate hardware.  The outputs can tell you the amount of time remaining and
the state of charge of the battery.
.TP
.BR Biff
Monitors the e-mail inbox (in
.B /var/spool/mail/<username>
or
.B /var/mail/<username>
) and indicates the number of e-mails that are waiting and the size of the
inbox.  The
.I options
parameter in the
.B .procmeterrc
file can be used to specify an alternate filename to use for the inbox.
.TP
.BR Date_Time
The current date and time and the amount of time since the system was last
booted.  Different outputs are available that allow the format of the date and
time information to be changed.
.TP
.BR DiskUsage
Shows the percentage of the disk that is used and the amount of free space for
each of the local disks that it finds are mounted or can be mounted when the
program starts.  Extra disks can be passed as options using the
.I options
parameter in the
.B .procmeterrc
file to contain a space separated list of mount points.
.TP
.BR LogFile
Monitors the size and number of lines and the rate of increase of the size or
number of lines in a set of log files.  The
.I options
parameter in the
.B .procmeterrc
file contains a space separated list of log file names.
.TP
.BR Memory
The amount of memory that is used for programs, buffers, cache and the amount
that is free.  This is the same information that is available from the
.B free
program, but is available here as a graph, bar or as text.
.TP
.BR Network
The network devices and the amount of traffic on each of them.  It will
automatically pick up available devices when it starts.  To specify others use
the
.I options
parameter in the
.B .procmeterrc
configuration file which is a space separated list of device names.
.TP
.BR Processes
The load average and the number of processes running and starting.
.TP
.BR ProcMeter
Information about the procmeter program itself.
.TP
.BR Sensors
Hardware sensors for temperature and fan speed.  (Requires lm78 hardware and
kernel patch from http://www.netroedge.com/~lm78/).
.TP
.BR Statistics
Low level system statistics.  For example CPU usage, disk usage, swapping and
paging.
.TP
.BR Stat-CPU
More detailed statistics about individual CPU usage including support for SMP
machines.
.TP
.BR Stat-Disk
More detailed statistics about individual disk usage including support for up to
4 disks.  (This limit is set by the kernel and not by procmeter.)
.TP
.BR Stat-Intr
More detailed statistics about individual interrupts including support for up to
32 interrupts (more interrupts are available from the kernel but not displayed).
.TP
.BR Uname
The system information, hostname and Linux kernel version, the same as the
output of the
.B uname
program.
.TP
.BR Wireless
Information about wireless network devices. It will
automatically pick up available devices when it starts. To specify others
use the
.I options
parameter in the 
.B .procmeterrc 
configuration file which is a space separated list of device names.
.TP
.BR Longrun
For systems with the Transmeta Crueso processor, information about longrun.
Will not work unless the kernel is compiled with CPUID support, and
/dev/cpu/0/cpuid must be readable by procmeter. (Allow regular users to
access the cpuid device at your own risk!)
.TP
.BR ACPI
Advanced Configuration and Power Interface information. These outputs are
only available if you have enabled ACPI in the Linux kernel and you have
the appropriate hardware.  ACPI can report various information about a
system's battery, and may also have thermal outputs available.

.SH SEE ALSO

procmeterrc(5)
.LP
biff(1) free(1) uname(1)

.SH AUTHOR

Andrew M. Bishop 1998,99,2000,01,02
